## Inspiration
This is my first dubhacks, and I must say I was disappointed. I came to hack, but quickly discovered that the event is closer to a glorified career fair rather than a competition between hackers to make a positive difference. I couldn’t have been the only one to see the irony when BlackRock and Bloomberg offer prizes to the teams who can successfully use their respective finance APIs, while the dubhacks prizes go to the teams whose creations best embody ethical principles. Why are massive profit driven corporations allowed to make themselves at home in a hackathon? The ideals of equality and utilitarianism directly conflict with the goals of mega-corporations who overemphasize profit outcomes at the expense of blinding themselves to moral issues. Hackers should defend the world from the domination of the rich, not ally with them! With this in mind, our team decided to compete with a mega-corporation. Bit.ly is a URL shortening platform driven by mass marketing, and focused on their brand. We have delivered the similar platform, but built instead on the foundations of empathy and philanthropy. Because of this difference, we are confident that many consumers will prefer our platform, even though Bit.ly no doubt has some technical advantages.
## What it does
LinkLiv.es is a link management solution that allows long URLs to be represented in a short form. This facilitates easy URL sharing among friends, and is particularly useful for social network mediums like Twitter, where a character limit can prevent some types of links being shared in their full form. LinkLiv.es, like Bit.ly, hosts video advertisements in a short interim before redirecting to the target URL. However, unlike Bit.ly, **100% of the advertising revenue generated from LinkLiv.es is donated to the Against Malaria Foundation**. This foundation funds long lasting insecticide-treated net distributions in developing countries. It has been evaluated by GiveWell as being the #1 most effective charity, in terms of lives saved per dollar spent. (more information here: LinkLiv.es/?k=9hyo307) 

The motto of LinkLiv.es is: _Shorten Links, Save Lives_.
## How I built it
LinkLiv.es is built upon an existing link shortening algorithm. We use server-less AWS lambda functions to generate short linkliv.es ‘key’ links. The short key URLs correspond to a dynamic redirect page that displays an advertisement for 15 seconds before using the key to retrieve the full URL and allowing the user to continue to the final target website.
## Challenges I ran into
Using AWS lambda functions proved to cause a major headache for a team of novice programmers with no experience in cloud computing. Although it was fun to be challenged learning a new technology, we all agree that it would have been a better decision to build linkedliv.es with php, a technology that at least one of us had some experience with. 
Additionally, implementing advertisements is not as quick of a process as we expected. Bureaucracy takes time that hackathons cannot provide, so we were unfortunately could not start collecting donations before the end of the hackathon. As a temporary placeholder for monetized advertisements, we are using the space for a video advertisement for the Against Malaria Foundation itself.
## Accomplishments that I'm proud of
I am incredibly proud of both myself and my teammates for producing a complete web based service within 24 hours, let alone one that is ready to provide real help for struggling people in third world countries! 
Furthermore, I am proud of the elegance of the project we’ve made. Although the scale of this project was small, I believe the ethical impact could be larger than any other project, coding or otherwise, that I have yet made. A simple web service, but with a significant impact.
Also, I must say that our product name was excellently selected. LinkLives is short enough to be an effective URL shortening domain, while still capturing the main ideas of the project in the two words.
## What I learned
-The parts of a project you least suspect trouble from could very well be the most difficult parts to complete.
-Passion can supplement technical skill to a certain extent, but mentors do even better.
What's next
-Implement a counter of “lives saved” as a function of the total donation dollar amount, and the expert estimations of how effective mosquito nets are at promoting longevity in areas affected by malaria.
-get the word out about linkliv.es to users of websites like twitter, who rely heavily on link shortening technology.
-On link generation page: better explain the service, and improve user interface.
